Draft announcement for the JDownloader community (board.jdownloader.org,
r/JDownloader, or anywhere else you post it). Not published by me: posting
needs your account, and an announcement should go out in your name.

--- title -------------------------------------------------------------------

jdtui — a terminal UI for JDownloader 2 over the My.JDownloader API

--- body --------------------------------------------------------------------

I wanted to drive JDownloader from a terminal, on machines where the GUI is
not an option, so I wrote jdtui:

https://github.com/rylos/jdtui

It signs in with a My.JDownloader account, so there is nothing to enable on the
JDownloader side, it works from anywhere the account does, and it handles every
instance connected to the account.

What it shows is the same tree as the desktop GUI: packages with their links,
split across a Downloads and a Link Grabber tab.

- mark several rows and act on all of them at once: force, resume, reset,
  enable/disable, priority, rename, download folder, move to a new package,
  split by hoster, stop mark, remove
- removing from the Downloads tab asks what to do with the files already on
  disk, the same three choices the desktop dialog offers
- start/stop and pause, captchas and archives being unpacked in the header,
  video variants in the Link Grabber, copy the urls of a selection
- premium accounts: traffic, expiry, enable/disable/refresh
- the JDownloader itself: update check, restart, reconnect
- an add-links form with the fields of the GUI's dialog, properties panel,
  filter as you type, a key reference on ?
- it listens to JDownloader's event channel, so links added from the browser
  or another client show up within a second or two, and it polls lightly
  while nothing downloads
- it talks to JDownloader directly whenever it can reach it, the way the web
  interface does: it asks JDownloader which addresses it answers on, pings
  them all and keeps the best, IPv6 first, and drops back to the relay by itself when
  that route stops answering. On a LAN it turns a call of about 100 ms into
  one of about 5 ms, and the header says which route is in use. A JDownloader
  in a container only knows its own address, so extra ones can be named in
  the config, per device
- what a row is doing is put in jdtui's own words, worked out from the API
  and not from JDownloader's status text, which is written in whatever
  language JDownloader runs in: an archive being unpacked reads Extracting,
  one that came out whole Extracted, a damaged one Extraction failed. The
  colours follow the state as well, so a finished link and a downloading one
  no longer look alike
- switch between the JDownloader instances on the account without restarting
- given a command instead of nothing, it answers on stdout and exits, so it
  fits in a script: status, downloads, grabber, devices, start/stop/pause,
  add, with --json for jq
- a single static binary, no runtime to install

Install with a Rust toolchain:

    cargo install --git https://github.com/rylos/jdtui

or take the prebuilt Linux x86_64 binary from the releases page. Every setting
is optional and documented in config.example.toml in the repository.

The My.JDownloader protocol is implemented natively rather than through a
library: request ids, HMAC-signed server calls, AES-CBC encrypted device calls,
session and regain tokens. The tests pin key derivation, query signing and the
cipher against the reference Python client byte for byte, so it should behave
exactly like any other client of the API.

MIT licensed. Feedback and bug reports welcome, especially from anyone running
it against a setup different from mine.

--- notes -------------------------------------------------------------------

Where this fits: board.jdownloader.org has a section for third party tools,
which is the right place for it rather than the support sections. On Reddit,
r/JDownloader. Both want an account.

Worth saying plainly in any thread: the tool asks for My.JDownloader
credentials and stores them locally in ~/.config/jdtui/config.toml with mode
0600. People will ask, and it is better to state it up front than to be asked.
